welcome back guys guess what we got this
time another friggin car to work on and
this one is going to be if we use Suzuki
friends and lovers out there or maybe
haters whichever the case my favorite
have you ever drove your car and then
you found out that your transmission
doesn't seem to be pulling off good
seems like your car doesn't have any
power or let's say you put it in reverse
or drive and you get a big clunking
sound well I think we got something here
too might show you that I helped you out
in this video now this car has a real
big problem with the transmission rain
sensor now let me just show you where
this is at
you come down here and look right down
here let me pull this here lower
radiator hose off to the side this your
black assembly that you see right here
is a transmission range sensor here's a
wires over here should be about nine
wires in here you can see that this is a
linkage here that goes back to the
transmission gear shift selector in
other words if you put it in P R in d3
201 then this here is going to be moving
back and forth that will make up some
switches inside here and inside this
here transmission range sensor it sends
back four data lines back to the TCM
transmission control module now we're
going to get into this a little bit
deeper and we're going to go look over
the electrical wiring diagrams and we're
going to diagnose this a little bit
right now my check engine light is off
so it's doing okay right now you know
with me most of the time I get things
they're always in a minute but I figured
it'd be a good chance to show you guys
how to troubleshoot so we're going to do
it's like a few videos here but I just
want to pointed this out to you and show
you where this is at also by the way
this also has the has the reverse backup
lights the switch is built in here for
that also
and it also has a port neutral position
switch built in here so
it only allows the car to start in park
or neutral so this here this here little
assembly right here has quite a few
switch contacts in here so the ones that
we're going to be looking at is for the
four switches that goes sends signals
back to the data data lines back to the
TCM okay for let's go ahead and get you
a shot so you can see the code on here
and then after we do that then we'll
probably close this video out and we'll
start on it and get into the Diagnostics
as far as a electrical troubleshooting
on it okay so next shot let's go look at
the scanner and see what we got alright
guys let's take a look at the code here
to see what we're going to get I've
already looked at this before but I want
to show you guys what it's going to be
okay take a few seconds here for it to
retrieve the code all codes alright as
you can see this is a p0 705
transmission rain sensor circuit
malfunction basically this is a this is
a switch assembly that's mounted out
there on the transmission as I showed
you earlier and what it does is just
looking for the positions of the of the
gear selector shift so PR in d3 2 1 so
with any one of those positions this
here rain sensor is going to be looking
at that this rain sensor switch ok now
this here code will set immediately ok
if it sees that the data lies these here
four data lines that it's looking at now
we're going to go into the looking at
the wiring diagram on this to see how
this thing works but before we get into
that in the next videos right now I just
want to say that this switch is a really
big problem on these here ring Suzuki
forensics and other makes there so I
figured this would be a good video for
you guys to see you know about how this
thing works
how to troubleshoot it and this here I
just want to start you off here and just
take a look at this code so we can see
where we got to go with it
now what happens is that when this thing
gets this code the as I mentioned it
will automatically set the code and it
will bring on the check engine light you
don't have to go through two or three
drive cycles for this thing's set then
what happened is the transmission will
go into a limp mode basically that's
where the it's going to default to a
another program ignoring some of the
sensors out there that the TCM that's
the transmission control module is going
to ignore so it's going to be running on
a default program pretty much what's
happening is that your car will start
off in fourth gear and trust me you will
know that when this condition happens
your transmission is going to be really
sluggish the car's not going to have any
power some other symptoms that you might
have that if you go into say reverse or
in the drive you may experience a
clunking sound reason for that is the
line pressure is being driven up higher
also so anyway I just want to show you
guys this here and then in videos that's
coming up we're going to start doing a
little diagnosis I've already got a rain
sensor switch it's not that expensive so
in about 30 bucks so it's more than
likely that's the problem
but for instead of us just changing it
out which we will show that procedure to
in the last video we're going to also
we're going to take a look at some of
this stuff like I mentioned about how
this thing works in troubleshooting and
diagnose and all that good stuff so I
appreciate you guys watching and stay
tuned and while I'm here I'm going to go
ahead and just clear this code right on
out so I'm gonna come over here to the
right and then press clear and it says a
do you want to take it all out yes let's
do it so now I'm going to just say oh
and like I said right now I do it does
not have a problem this this is a
intermittent condition and I don't want
to get too much into this one because I
just as far as I'm telling you what it
takes to set how many how many ignition
cycles off and on but we're look we're
looking at all that later on
but right now we're clear so I'm just
going to go ahead we'll come on out of
this right now
so y'all guys stay tuned and we'll we'll
get into some diagrams here next